# **Nmap Series**


# Nmap Live Host Discovery

Learn how to use Nmap to discover live hosts using ARP scan, ICMP scan, and TCP/UDP ping scan.


## [TASK-1] Introduction

When we want to target a network. we use Nmap and find the answers of :

- Which systems are up?

- What services are running on these systems?

### Nmap series

    1. Nmap Live Host Discovery
    2. Nmap Basic Port Scans
    3. Nmap Advanced Port Scans
    4. Nmap Post Port Scans


**Nmap Live Host Discovery**

To Discover Live Hosts, Nmap have different approaches:
- ARP scan: This scan uses ARP requests to discover live hosts.
- ICMP scan: This scan uses ICMP requests to identify live hosts.
- TCP/UDP ping scan: This scan sends packets to TCP ports and UDP ports to determine live hosts.

We also introduce two scanners, arp-scan and masscan, and explain how they overlap with part of Nmap’s host discovery.

Nmap is an industry-standard tool for mapping networks, identifying live hosts, and discovering running services. Nmap’s scripting engine can further extend its functionality, from fingerprinting services to exploiting vulnerabilities. A Nmap scan usually goes through the steps shown in the figure below, although many are optional and depend on the command-line arguments you provide.
1. Enumerate targets
2. Discover live hosts
3. Reverse-DNS lookup 
4. Scan ports
5. Detect versions
6. Detect OS
7. Traceroute
8. Scripts
9. Write output


# [TASK-2] Subnetworks

A network segment is a group of computers connected using a shared medium.
In an IP network, a subnetwork is usually the equivalent of one or more network segments connected together and configured to use the same router. The network segment refers to a physical connection, while a subnetwork refers to a logical connection.

A subnetwork, or simply a subnet, has its own IP address range and is connected to a more extensive network via a router. 


Network A : 10.1.100.0/24

Network B : 10.2.0.0/16

Network C : 10.3.200.0/24

Network D : 10.4.0.0/16

above shows two types of subnets:

    Subnets with /16, which means that the subnet mask can be written as 255.255.0.0. This subnet can have around 65 thousand hosts.
    Subnets with /24, which indicates that the subnet mask can be expressed as 255.255.255.0. This subnet can have around 250 hosts.

If you are connected to the same subnet, you would expect your scanner to rely on ARP (Address Resolution Protocol) queries to discover live hosts. An ARP query aims to get the hardware address (MAC address) so that communication over the link-layer becomes possible; however, we can use this to infer that the host is online.

If you are in Network A, you can use ARP only to discover the devices within that subnet (10.1.100.0/24). Suppose you are connected to a subnet different from the subnet of the target system(s). In that case, all packets generated by your scanner will be routed via the default gateway (router) to reach the systems on another subnet; however, the ARP queries won’t be routed and hence cannot cross the subnet router. ARP is a link-layer protocol, and ARP packets are bound to their subnet.


## [Task-3] Enumerating Targets

we need to specify the targets we want to scan. Generally speaking, you can provide a list, a range, or a subnet. Examples of target specification are:

    list: MACHINE_IP scanme.nmap.org example.com will scan 3 IP addresses.
    range: 10.11.12.15-20 will scan 6 IP addresses: 10.11.12.15, 10.11.12.16,… and 10.11.12.20.
    subnet: MACHINE_IP/30 will scan 4 IP addresses.

You can also provide a file as input for your list of targets, ```nmap -iL list_of_hosts.txt```.

If you want to check the list of hosts that Nmap will scan, you can use ```nmap -sL TARGETS```. This option will give you a detailed list of the hosts that Nmap will scan without scanning them; however, Nmap will attempt a reverse-DNS resolution on all the targets to obtain their names. Names might reveal various information to the pentester. (If you don’t want Nmap to the DNS server, you can add -n.)


## [Task-4] Discovering Live Hosts 

Let’s revisit the TCP/IP layers shown in the figure next. We will leverage the protocols to discover the live hosts. Starting from bottom to top, we can use:

    ARP from Link Layer
    ICMP from Network Layer
    TCP from Transport Layer
    UDP from Transport Layer

TCP/IP Model
Application->Transport->Network->Link 

ARP has one purpose: sending a frame to the broadcast address on the network segment and asking the computer with a specific IP address to respond by providing its MAC (hardware) address.

ICMP has many types. ICMP ping uses Type 8 (Echo) and Type 0 (Echo Reply).

If you want to ping a system on the same subnet, an ARP query should precede the ICMP Echo.

Although TCP and UDP are transport layers, for network scanning purposes, a scanner can send a specially-crafted packet to common TCP or UDP ports to check whether the target will respond. This method is efficient, especially when ICMP Echo is blocked.


## [Task-5] Nmap Host Discovery Using ARP 

When no host discovery options are provided, Nmap follows the following approaches to discover live hosts:

    When a privileged user tries to scan targets on a local network (Ethernet), Nmap uses ARP requests. A privileged user is root or a user who belongs to sudoers and can run sudo.
    When a privileged user tries to scan targets outside the local network, Nmap uses ICMP echo requests, TCP ACK (Acknowledge) to port 80, TCP SYN (Synchronize) to port 443, and ICMP timestamp request.
    When an unprivileged user tries to scan targets outside the local network, Nmap resorts to a TCP 3-way handshake by sending SYN packets to ports 80 and 443.

 If you want to use Nmap to discover online hosts without port-scanning the live systems, you can issue ```nmap -sn TARGETS```

 ARP scan is possible only if you are on the same subnet as the target systems. On an Ethernet (802.3) and WiFi (802.11), you need to know the MAC address of any system before you can communicate with it. The MAC address is necessary for the link-layer header; the header contains the source MAC address and the destination MAC address among other fields. To get the MAC address, the OS sends an ARP query. A host that replies to ARP queries is up. The ARP query only works if the target is on the same subnet as yourself, i.e., on the same Ethernet/WiFi. You should expect to see many ARP queries generated during a Nmap scan of a local network. If you want Nmap only to perform an ARP scan without port-scanning, you can use ```nmap -PR -sn TARGETS```, where -PR indicates that you only want an ARP scan.

 Nmap sends ARP requests to all the target computers, and those online should send an ARP reply back.

 One popular choice is arp-scan --localnet or simply arp-scan -l. This command will send ARP queries to all valid IP addresses on your local networks. Moreover, if your system has more than one interface and you are interested in discovering the live hosts on one of them, you can specify the interface using -I. For instance, sudo arp-scan -I eth0 -l will send ARP queries for all valid IP addresses on the eth0 interface.

Note that arp-scan is not installed on the AttackBox; however, it can be installed using apt install arp-scan.

We can notice that the packet capture for arp-scan and nmap -PR -sn yield similar traffic patterns.


## [Task-6] Nmap Host Discovery using ICMP

We can ping every IP address on a target network and see who would respond to our ping (ICMP Type 8/Echo) requests with a ping reply (ICMP Type 0).

This would be the most straightforward approach, it is not always reliable. Many firewalls block ICMP echo; new versions of MS Windows are configured with a host firewall that blocks ICMP echo requests by default. 

Remember that an ARP query will precede the ICMP request if your target is on the same subnet.

To use ICMP echo request to discover live hosts, add the option -PE. (Remember to add -sn if you don’t want to follow that with a port scan.) 

Because ICMP echo requests tend to be blocked, you might also consider 
ICMP Timestamp or ICMP Address Mask requests to tell if a system is online. Nmap uses timestamp request (ICMP Type 13) and checks whether it will get a Timestamp reply (ICMP Type 14). Adding the -PP option tells Nmap to use ICMP timestamp requests. As shown in the figure below, you expect live hosts to reply.

Similarly, Nmap uses address mask queries (ICMP Type 17) and checks whether it gets an address mask reply (ICMP Type 18). This scan can be enabled with the option -PM. As shown in the figure below, live hosts are expected to reply to ICMP address mask requests.


## [Task-7] Nmap Host Discovery Using TCP and UDP

TCP SYN Ping

We can send a packet with the SYN (Synchronize) flag set to a TCP port, 80 by default, and wait for a response. An open port should reply with a SYN/ACK (Acknowledge); a closed port would result in an RST (Reset). In this case, we only check whether we will get any response to infer whether the host is up. The specific state of the port is not significant here.

If you want Nmap to use TCP SYN ping, you can do so via the option -PS followed by the port number, range, list, or a combination of them.

Privileged users (root and sudoers) can send TCP SYN packets and don’t need to complete the TCP 3-way handshake even if the port is open. Unprivileged users have no choice but to complete the 3-way handshake if the port is open.

We will run nmap -PS -sn MACHINE_IP/24 to scan the target VM subnet.

Technically speaking, since we didn’t specify any TCP ports to use in the TCP ping scan, Nmap used common ports; in this case, it is TCP port 80. Any service listening on port 80 is expected to reply, indirectly indicating that the host is online.


TCP ACK Ping

As you have guessed, this sends a packet with an ACK flag set. You must be running Nmap as a privileged user to be able to accomplish this. If you try it as an unprivileged user, Nmap will attempt a 3-way handshake.

The syntax is similar to TCP SYN ping. -PA should be followed by a port number, range, list, or a combination of them. For example, consider -PA21, -PA21-25 and -PA80,443,8080. If no port is specified, port 80 will be used.

The target responds with the RST flag set because the TCP packet with the ACK flag is not part of any ongoing connection. The expected response is used to detect if the target host is up.

In this example, we run sudo nmap -PA -sn MACHINE_IP/24 to discover the online hosts on the target’s subnet.

we will discover many packets with the ACK flag set and sent to port 80 of the target systems. Nmap sends each packet twice. The systems that don’t respond are offline or inaccessible.


UDP Ping

Finally, we can use UDP to discover if the host is online. Contrary to TCP SYN ping, sending a UDP packet to an open port is not expected to lead to any reply. However, if we send a UDP packet to a closed UDP port, we expect to get an ICMP port unreachable packet; this indicates that the target system is up and available.

Nmap uses -PU for UDP ping. 


Masscan

On a side note, Masscan uses a similar approach to discover the available systems. However, to finish its network scan quickly, Masscan is quite aggressive with the rate of packets it generates. The syntax is quite similar: -p can be followed by a port number, list, or range. Consider the following examples:

    masscan MACHINE_IP/24 -p443
    masscan MACHINE_IP/24 -p80,443
    masscan MACHINE_IP/24 -p22-25
    masscan MACHINE_IP/24 ‐‐top-ports 100

Masscan is not installed on the AttackBox; however, it can be installed using apt install masscan.


## [Task-8] Using Reverse-DNS Lookup

Nmap’s default behaviour is to use reverse-DNS online hosts. Because the hostnames can reveal a lot, this can be a helpful step. However, if you don’t want to send such DNS queries, you use -n to skip this step.

By default, Nmap will look up online hosts; however, you can use the option -R to query the DNS server even for offline hosts. If you want to use a specific DNS server, you can add the --dns-servers DNS_SERVER option.


## [Task-9] Summary

You have learned how ARP, ICMP, TCP, and UDP can detect live hosts by completing this room. Any response from a host is an indication that it is online. Below is a quick summary of the command-line options for Nmap that we have covered.

| Scan Type |	Example Command |
| -------------|--------------------|
ARP Scan |	sudo nmap -PR -sn MACHINE_IP/24 |
ICMP Echo Scan |	sudo nmap -PE -sn MACHINE_IP/24 |
ICMP Timestamp Scan |	sudo nmap -PP -sn MACHINE_IP/24
ICMP Address Mask Scan |	sudo nmap -PM -sn MACHINE_IP/24
TCP SYN Ping Scan |	sudo nmap -PS22,80,443 -sn MACHINE_IP/30
TCP ACK Ping Scan |	sudo nmap -PA22,80,443 -sn MACHINE_IP/30
UDP Ping Scan |	sudo nmap -PU53,161,162 -sn MACHINE_IP/30

Remember to add -sn if you are only interested in host discovery without port-scanning. Omitting -sn will let Nmap default to port-scanning the live hosts.
|Option |	Purpose|
|-----|-----|
-n |	no DNS lookup
-R |	reverse-DNS lookup for all hosts
-sn |	host discovery only


# Nmap Basic Port Scans

## [Task-1] Introduction

After learning about the “Host” Scan in the previous room, we will now concentrate on the “Port” Scan. To determine which ports are open and listening, as well as which ports are closed.

    Host — Similarly, we needed to know whether the “Owner” was at home since we wanted to know whether it was “Online” or “Offline.”
    Port — The concept is similar to whether the “Door” is open or closed.

This room’s focal points are as follows:

    TCP connect port scan
    TCP SYN port scan
    UDP port scan

## [Task-2] TCP and UDP Ports

In the same way that an IP address identifies a host on a network, a TCP or UDP port identifies a network service running on that host.

    The network service is provided by a server, which follows a certain network protocol. Timekeeping, replying to DNS inquiries, and serving web pages are some examples.
    A port is commonly associated with a service by utilizing the port number.
    By default, an HTTP server will bind to TCP port 80; moreover, if the HTTP server supports SSL/TLS, it will listen on TCP port 443. (TCP ports 80 and 443 are the default HTTP and HTTPS ports;
    If necessary, the webserver administrator may select different port numbers.)
    Furthermore, no more than one service can listen on any TCP or UDP port at the same time (on the same IP address).

At the risk of simplicity, we can divide ports into two categories:

    1) An open port means that some service is listening on that port.
    2) A closed port means that no service is listening on that port.

However, in practice, we must consider the impact of firewalls.

For example, a port may be open, yet packets may be blocked by a firewall. As a result, Nmap takes the following six states into account:

    Open — indicates that a service is listening on the specified port.
    Closed — indicates that no service is listening on the specified port, although the port is accessible. By accessible, we mean that it is reachable and is not blocked by a firewall or other security appliances/programs.
    Filtered — means that Nmap cannot determine if the port is open or closed because the port is NOT accessible. This state is usually due to a firewall preventing Nmap from reaching that port. Nmap’s packets may be blocked from reaching the port; alternatively, the responses are blocked from reaching Nmap’s host.
    Unfiltered — this means that Nmap cannot determine if the port is open or closed, although the port is accessible. This state is encountered when using an ACK scan -sA.
    Open|Filtered — This means that Nmap cannot determine whether the port is open or filtered.
    Closed|Filtered — This means that Nmap cannot decide whether a port is closed or filtered.

[Question 2.1] Which service uses UDP port 53 by default?

Answer: DNS

[Question 2.2] Which service uses TCP port 22 by default?

Answer: ssh

[Question 2.3] How many port states does Nmap consider?

Answer: 6

[Question 2.4] Which port state is the most interesting to discover as a pentester?

Answer: Open


## [Task-3] TCP Flags

Nmap supports a variety of TCP port scans. To understand the distinction between these port scans, we must examine the TCP header.

    The first 24 bytes of a TCP segment are the TCP header.
    The TCP header as defined in RFC 793 is demonstrated in the figure below.

The port number is given 16 bits, as we can see (2 bytes). The sequence number and acknowledgement number are in the second and third rows. Each row is given 32 bits (4 bytes), with a total of six rows totaling 24 bytes.

We should pay special attention to the flags that Nmap can set or unset.

The TCP flags have been highlighted in red. Setting a flag bit to 1 signifies changing its value.

The TCP header flags are, from left to right:

    1. URG — Urgent flag indicates that the urgent pointer filed is significant. The urgent pointer indicates that the incoming data is urgent, and that a TCP segment with the URG flag set is processed immediately without consideration of having to wait on previously sent TCP segments.
    2. ACK — Acknowledgement flag indicates that the acknowledgement number is significant. It is used to acknowledge the receipt of a TCP segment.
    3. PSH — Push flag asking TCP to pass the data to the application promptly.
    4. RST — Reset flag is used to reset the connection. Another device, such as a firewall, might send it to tear a TCP connection. This flag is also used when data is sent to a host and there is no service on the receiving end to answer.
    5. SYN — Synchronize flag is used to initiate a TCP 3-way handshake and synchronize sequence numbers with the other host. The sequence number should be set randomly during TCP connection establishment.
    6. FIN — The sender has no more data to send.


[Question 3.1] What 3 letters represent the Reset flag?

Answer: RST

[Question 3.2] Which flag needs to be set when you initiate a TCP connection (first packet of TCP 3-way handshake)?

Answer: SYN

## [Task-4] TCP Connect Scan

TCP Connect Scan — It works simply by performing the TCP 3-way handshake.

Fundamentally, (1) the client sends a TCP packet with the SYN flag set, and (2) the server responds with SYN/ACK if the port is open; finally, the (3) client sends an ACK to complete the 3-way handshake.

We want to know if the TCP port is open, not if a TCP connection can be established.

As a result, the connection is severed as soon as its status is validated by sending an RST/ACK. You can use -sT to do a TCP connect scan.

It is vital to note that if you are NOT a privileged user (root or sudoer), the ONLY way to identify available TCP ports is to perform a TCP connect scan.

In the Wireshark packet capture window below, we see Nmap sending TCP packets with the SYN flag set to several ports, including 256, 443, and 143.

Nmap will attempt to connect to the 1000 most popular ports by default. 

    To signal that it is not open, a closed TCP port responds to a SYN packet with RST/ACK. As we attempt to begin a TCP 3-way handshake with the closed ports, this pattern will be repeated.

Because port 143 is open, it responded with a SYN/ACK, and Nmap completed the three-way handshake with an ACK. (image below)

The diagram below illustrates all of the packets sent and received between our Nmap host and the target system’s port 143. The first three packets represent the completion of the TCP 3-way handshake. The fourth packet then shatters it with a RST/ACK packet.

The following command example gave a thorough list of open ports to demonstrate the -sT (TCP connect scan).

    1. It is worth noting that we can use -F to enable fast mode and reduce the number of examined ports from 1000 to 100 most commonly used ports.
    2. It is important to note that the -r option can be used to scan the ports in sequential order rather than random order. This option is important for verifying whether ports open consistently, such as when a target boots up.

[Question 4.1] Launch the VM. Open the AttackBox and execute nmap -sT MACHINE_IP via the terminal. A new service has been installed on this VM since our last scan. Which port number was closed in the scan above but is now open on this target VM?

Answer: 110

[Question 4.2] What is Nmap’s guess about the newly installed service?

Answer: pop3

## [Task-5] TCP SYN Scan

To start with, this scan needs a “Privileged (root or sudoer)” user to execute.

TCP SYN Scan — It is essential to understand that it DOES NOT NEED TO COMPLETE THE TCP 3-WAY-HANDSHAKE and instead closes the connection once it receives a response from the server.

    Because the TCP connection is not established in this instance, the chances of the scan being logged are minimized.

The following Wireshark screenshot illustrates a TCP SYN scan. In the event of closed TCP ports, the behavior is similar to that of the TCP connect scan.

Evaluate the two screenshot to better understand the difference between the two scans.

    We can notice TCP connect scan -sT traffic in the upper half of the following picture. Nmap will need to complete the TCP 3-way handshake before shutting any open TCP ports.
    The lower part of the following picture shows how an SYN scan -sS does not require the TCP 3-way handshake to be completed; instead, Nmap sends an RST message immediately an SYN/ACK packet is received.

TCP SYN scan is the default scan mode when using Nmap as a privileged user, such as root or sudo, and it is a very dependable option.

    It discovered the open ports you discovered before with the TCP connect scan
    There’s no TCP connection was formed with the destination.

[Question 5.1] Launch the VM. Some new server software has been installed since the last time we scanned it. On the AttackBox, use the terminal to execute nmap -sS 10.10.48.181. What is the new open port?

Answer: 6667

[Question 5.2] What is Nmap’s guess of the service name?

Answer: irc

## [Task-6] UDP Scan

To begin, because UDP is a connectionless protocol, it does not require a handshake to establish a connection.

It should be highlighted that this does not ensure that a service listening on a UDP port will react to the messages. However, if a UDP packet is delivered to an unreachable port, an ICMP port unreachable error (type 3, code 3) is returned.

You can use the -sU option to specify a UDP scan; additionally, you can combine it with another TCP scan.

The diagram below indicates that if we transmit a UDP packet to an open UDP port, we will not receive a response. As a result, sending a UDP packet to an open port will produce no results.

However, as illustrated in the diagram below, we anticipate receiving an ICMP packet with type 3, destination inaccessible, and code 3, port unreachable. In other words, Nmap will report as open UDP ports that do not receive any responses.

We can notice in the Wireshark sample below that every closed port generates an ICMP message destination unreachable (port unreachable).

A UDP scan against this Linux server proved useful, and we discovered that port 111 is open. Nmap, on the other hand, cannot tell whether UDP port 68 is open or filtered.

[Question 6.1] Launch the VM. On the AttackBox, use the terminal to execute nmap -sU -F -v MACHINE_IP. A new service has been installed since the last scan. What is the UDP port that is now open?

-F flag was added to speed up the scan (scan 100 most common instead of 1000).-v to get updates as the scan progresses

Answer: 53

[Question 6.2] What is the service name according to Nmap?

Answer: domain

## [Task-7] Fine-Tuning Scope and Performance

Instead of the default 1000 ports, you can choose which ports to scan. Specifying the ports is now simple. Here are several examples:

port list: -p22,80,443 will scan ports 22, 80 and 443.port range: -p1-1023 will scan all ports between 1 and 1023 inclusive, while -p20-25 will scan ports between 20 and 25 inclusive.You can request a port scan by using -p-, which will scan all 65535 ports. Add -F to scan the top 100 most popular ports. Using --top-ports 10 will examine the top ten most commonly used ports.

You can control the scan timing using -T<0-5>.

-T0 is the slowest (paranoid), while -T5 is the fastest. According to Nmap manual page, there are six templates:

paranoid (0)sneaky (1)polite (2)normal (3)aggressive (4)insane (5)

Here are a few “T” scans to keep an eye out for:

    You could use -T0 or -T1 to avoid IDS alerts.
    For example, -T0 searches one port at a time and waits 5 minutes between sending each probe, so you can estimate how long it would take to scan one target.
    If no timing is specified, Nmap uses the standard -T3.
    It should be noted that -T5 is the most aggressive in terms of speed; nevertheless, due to the greater possibility of packet loss, this can compromise the accuracy of the scan results.
    It should be noted that -T4 is frequently used during CTFs and when learning to scan on practice targets.
    -T1 is frequently used in real-world hacking operations where stealth is more crucial.

Alternatively, you can choose to control the packet rate using --min-rate <number> and --max-rate <number>. 
• For example, --max-rate 10 or --max-rate=10 ensures that your scanner is not sending more than ten packets per second.

Moreover, you can control probing parallelization using --min-parallelism <numprobes> and --max-parallelism <numprobes>.

Nmap probes the targets to discover which hosts are live and which ports are open; probing parallelization specifies the number of such probes that can be run in parallel. For instance, --min-parallelism=512 pushes Nmap to maintain at least 512 probes in parallel; these 512 probes are related to host discovery and open ports.

[Question 7.1] What is the option to scan all the TCP ports between 5000 and 5500?

Answer: -p5000–5500

[Question 7.2] How can you ensure that Nmap will run at least 64 probes in parallel?

Answer: — min-parallelism 64

--min-parallelism 64

[Question 7.3] What option would you add to make Nmap very slow and paranoid?

Answer: -T0


## Summary

| Port Scan Type | Example Command |
| -------------  |  -------------- |
TCP Connect Scan | nmap -sT 10.10.73.224
TCP SYN Scan |sudo nmap -sS 10.10.73.224
UDP Scan | sudo nmap -SU 10.10.73.224

| Option | Purpose |
| ----| --- |
-p- | all ports
-p1-1023 | scan ports 1 to 1023
-F | 100 most common ports
-r | scan ports in consecutive order
-T<0-5> | -T0 being the slowest and T5 the fastest
--max-rate 50 | rate <= 50 packets/sec
--min-rate 15 | rate >= 15 packets/sec
--min-parallelism 100 | at least 100 probes in parallel

[Question 8.1] Ensure you have taken note of all the scan options covered in this room. It is time to learn more advanced port scanning techniques by joining the Nmap Advanced Port Scans room.

Answer: No answer is needed.

CONCLUSION

In my opinion, the major objective underlying all of these scans is to have a basic understanding of how TCP works, such as understanding the 3-way handshake, which is crucial because it allows us to understand how the system works and why it runs in this manner.

Nonetheless, this room is full of information since it provides a fresh new viewpoint on how each port scan works and how it appears in Wireshark, which provides a better illustration of how it runs behind-the-scenes.


# Nmap Advanced Port Scans

## [Task-1] Introduction
Security researchers and hackers examined the TCP flags, illustrated in the image below and explained in the preceding room, and began experimenting.

They wanted to know what would happen if we sent a TCP packet with one or more flags set that was not part of any ongoing TCP connection.

A quick refresher of the prior room, one of the sections that taught about the “ACK Flag,” which we wish to “acknowledge” received data, and it is similar to attempting to acknowledge data that was never sent or received in the first place.

Similarly to someone approaching you out of nowhere and saying, “yeah, I hear you, please continue,” when you haven’t spoken anything.

## [Task-2] Nmap Null Scan, Fin Scan, and Xmas Scan

Null Scan — It does not set any flags; all six flag bits are set to zero.

    When a TCP packet arrives at an open port with no flags specified, no response is generated.
    A lack of response in a null scan suggests that either the port is open or a firewall is blocking the packet, according to Nmap.

Option to use: -sN

If the port is closed, we expect the target server to react with a RST response. As a result, we may use the lack of RST response to determine which ports are open or filtered.

An example of a null scan against a Linux server is shown below. The six open ports on the target system were successfully discovered by the null scan we performed.

Because the null scan depends on the lack of response to inferring that the port is not closed, it cannot guarantee that these ports are open; the ports may be not responding because of a firewall rule.
It should be noted that many Nmap options require root permissions. Unless you are running Nmap as root, you must use sudo, as shown in the preceding example using the -sN option.

FIN Scan — It transmits a TCP packet with the flag “FIN.” However, no answer will be sent back if the TCP port is open, therefore Nmap cannot tell if the port is open or if a firewall is blocking TCP port communication.

Just like with “NULL Scan,” the target system will react with a “RST” if the port is closed, so that we can determine which port is closed and then utilize that information to determine which ports are open or filtered.

    It’s beneficial to understand that some firewalls will ‘quietly’ drop traffic without sending a RST.

Option to use: -sF

The outcome is very similar to what we received earlier utilizing a “NULL Scan.”

Xmas Scan — This scan appears to be named after Christmas tree lights. However, the primary goal of this scan is to simultaneously activate the FIN, PSH, and URG flags.

    If a RST packet is received, comparable to a “NULL” or “FIN” scan, it indicates that the port is closed; otherwise, it will be reported as “open|filtered.”

Option to use: -sX

The obtained results are very comparable to those of the “NULL” and “FIN” scans.

When scanning a target behind a stateless (non-stateful) firewall, these three scan modes can be very efficient.

    To identify a connection attempt, a stateless firewall will examine the incoming packet for the SYN flag.
    Using a flag combination that does not match the SYN packet allows you to fool the firewall and get access to the system behind it.
    A stateful firewall, on the other hand, will effectively block all such designed packets, rendering this type of scan ineffective.

[Question 2.1] In a null scan, how many flags are set to 1?

Answer: 0

[Question 2.2] In a FIN scan, how many flags are set to 1?

Answer: 1

[Question 2.3] In a Xmas scan, how many flags are set to 1?

Answer: 3

[Question 2.4] Start the VM and load the AttackBox. Once both are ready, open the terminal on the AttackBox and use nmap to launch a FIN scan against the target VM. How many ports appear as open|filtered?

Answer: 7

[Question 2.5] Repeat your scan launching a null scan against the target VM. How many ports appear as open|filtered?

Answer: 7


## [Task-3] TCP Maimon Scan
Maimon Scan — When the “FIN” and “ACK” bits are set, the target should respond with an RST packet. However, many BSD-derived systems delete the packet if it is an open port, exposing the open ports, although this scan will not function on most targets encountered owing to modern networks.

But keep in mind that this is only for educational purposes.

Option to use: -sM

Regardless of whether the TCP port is open, most target machines react with an RST response.

    We won’t be able to find the open ports in this instance.

The diagram below illustrates the expected behavior for both open and closed TCP ports.

[Question 3.1] In the Maimon scan, how many flags are set?

    Because “FIN/ACK” are being delivered to the target’s machine

Answer: 2

## [Task-4] TCP ACK Window and Custom Scan

TCP ACK Scan — An ACK scan will transmit a TCP packet with the ACK flag set, and the target will respond to the ACK with RST regardless of the port’s state.

It happens because, unlike in our instance, a TCP packet with the ACK flag set should only be sent in response to a received TCP packet to acknowledge the receipt of certain data. As a result, in a simple arrangement, this scan will NOT inform us whether the target port is open.

Option to use: -sA

We were unable to determine which ports were open, as expected.

Even though the results are negative in general, this type of scan is useful if there is a firewall in front of the target since it will tell you which ports were not blocked by the firewall depending on which ACK packets resulted in answers.

    In other words, this form of scan is more suited for identifying firewall rule sets and setup.

We ran the ACK scan after configuring the target VM with a firewall. We got some interesting results this time. We have three ports that are not being blocked by the firewall, as shown in the console output below. This implies that the firewall is blocking all other ports save these three.

Which leads to the question, "why" are these three ports so valuable that they require a firewall to be blocked?

Window Scan — It is similar to the ACK scan, except that it analyzes the TCP Window field of the RST packets returned.

    This can indicate that the port is open on some systems.
    Regardless of whether the port is open or closed, we expect to receive an RST message in response to our “uninvited” ACK packets.

Similarly, launching a TCP window scan against a Linux system with no firewall will not provide much information.

As we can see in the console output below, the results of the window scan against a Linux server with no firewall didn’t give any extra information compared to the ACK scan executed earlier.

However, we might expect more pleasing findings if we run our TCP window scan against a server behind a firewall.

The TCP window scan indicated that three ports were detected as closed in the console output displayed below. (This differs from the ACK scan, which labeled the same three ports as unfiltered.)

Despite the fact that we know these three ports are not closed, we can see that they answered differently, demonstrating that the firewall does not block them.

Custom Scan — If you wish to try out a different TCP flag combination than the built-in TCP scan types, use — scanflags.

For example, if you wish to set SYN, RST, and FIN all at once, use — scanflags RSTSYNFIN. As indicated in the graphic below, if you design your custom scan, you must understand how the various ports will react in order to accurately interpret the results in various settings.

Finally, it is critical to highlight that the ACK scan and the Window scan were really useful in assisting us in mapping out the firewall rules. It is important to realize, however, that just because a firewall does not block a certain port does not necessarily mean that a service is listening on that port.

For example, the firewall rules might need to be modified to reflect current service modifications. As a result, ACK and window scans expose the firewall rules rather than the services.

[Question 4.1] In TCP Window scan, how many flags are set?

Answer: 1

[Question 4.2] You decided to experiment with a custom TCP scan that has the reset flag set. What would you add after --scanflags?

Answer: RST

[Question 4.3] The VM received an update to its firewall ruleset. A new port is now allowed by the firewall. After you make sure that you have terminated the VM from Task 2, start the VM for this task. Launch the AttackBox if you haven’t done that already. Once both are ready, open the terminal on the AttackBox and use Nmap to launch an ACK scan against the target VM. How many ports appear unfiltered?

Answer: 4

[Question 4.4] What is the new port number that appeared?

Answer: 443

[Questinon 4.5] Is there any service behind the newly discovered port number? (Y/N)

Answer: N


## [Task-5] Spoofing and Decoys

It’s worth noting that in some network configurations, we’ll be able to scan a target system using a spoofed IP address and even a spoofed MAC address.

    However, such a scan is only useful when it is possible to promise that the response will be captured.
    If we try to scan a target from a random network using a spoofed IP address, we are unlikely to receive a response, and the scan results may be inaccurate.

Option to use: -S
Example: nmap -S <spoof_if> <target>

Nmap will generate all packets with the specified source IP address SPOOFED_IP. The target machine will reply to incoming packets using the destination IP address SPOOFED_IP.

To make this scan operate and produce reliable findings, the attacker must monitor network traffic and evaluate the responses.

In brief, scanning with a spoofed IP address is three steps:1) Attacker sends a packet with a spoofed source IP address to the target machine.2) Target machine replies to the spoofed IP address as the destination.3) Attacker captures the replies to figure out open ports.

In general, you expect to specify the network interface using -e and to explicitly disable ping scan -Pn.

Therefore, instead of nmap -S SPOOFED_IP MACHINE_IP, you will need to issue nmap -e NET_INTERFACE -Pn -S SPOOFED_IP MACHINE_IP to tell Nmap explicitly which network interface to use and not to expect to receive a ping reply.

    It is worth repeating that this scan will be useless if the attacker system cannot monitor the network for responses.

When you are on the same subnet as the target machine, you would be able to spoof your MAC address as well.

You can specify the source MAC address using --spoof-mac SPOOFED_MAC. This address spoofing is only possible if the attacker and the target machine are on the same Ethernet (802.3) network or same WiFi (802.11).

You can launch a decoy scan by specifying a specific or random IP address after -D.

    For example, nmap -D 10.10.0.1,10.10.0.2,ME MACHINE_IP will make the scan of MACHINE_IP appear as coming from the IP addresses 10.10.0.1, 10.10.0.2, and then ME to indicate that your IP address should appear in the third order.

Another example command would be nmap -D 10.10.0.1,10.10.0.2,RND,RND,ME MACHINE_IP, where the third and fourth source IP addresses are assigned randomly, while the fifth source is going to be the attacker’s IP address. In other words, each time you execute the latter command, you would expect two new random IP addresses to be the third and fourth decoy sources.

[Question 5.1] What do you need to add to the command sudo nmap 10.10.116.100 to make the scan appear as if coming from the source IP address 10.10.10.11 instead of your IP address?

Answer: -S 10.10.10.11

[Question 5.2] What do you need to add to the command sudo nmap 10.10.116.100 to make the scan appear as if coming from the source IP addresses 10.10.20.21 and 10.10.20.28 in addition to your IP address?

Answer: -D 10.10.20.21,10.10.20.28


## [Task-6] Fragmented Packets

Firewall — It’s essentially a piece of software or hardware that either allows or blocks “packets,” and is quite similar to the entrance guard.

It operates on the basis of “firewall rules,” which can be characterized as blocking all traffic with exceptions or letting all traffic with exceptions.

    For example, you could block all communication to your server except that from your web server.
    A typical firewall inspects the IP header and the transport layer header at the very least.
    A more advanced firewall would additionally attempt to inspect the data transmitted by the “transport layer.”

IDS (Intrusion Detection System) — It examines network packets for certain behavioural patterns or content signatures and produces an alert whenever a malicious rule is matched.

    In addition to the IP header and transport layer header, an IDS would scan the data in the transport layer to see whether it matches any malicious patterns.

How can you reduce the likelihood that a standard firewall/IDS would detect your Nmap activity?Answer: It is not easy; however, depending on the type of firewall/IDS, breaking the packet into smaller packets may help.

Fragmented Packets — Nmap has a -f option for fragmenting packets.

When this option is selected, the IP data will be split into 8 bytes or fewer. Adding additional -f (-f -f or -ff) divides the data into 16 byte-fragments rather than 8.

You can override the default amount using the — mtu option; however, you should always use a multiple of 8.

To fully comprehend fragmentation, we must examine the IP header in the figure below. It may appear complicated at first, but we realize that we are familiar with the majority of its fields.

Take note that the source address occupies 32 bits (4 bytes) on the fourth row, while the destination address occupies another 4 bytes on the fifth row.

The data that will be divided into many packets is highlighted in red. IP employs the identification (ID) and fragment offset, as indicated in the second row of the picture below, to aid with reassembly on the recipient side.

Let’s compare running sudo nmap -sS -p80 10.20.30.144 and sudo nmap -sS -p80 -f 10.20.30.144. As you know by now, this will use stealth TCP SYN scan on port 80; however, in the second command, we are requesting Nmap to fragment the IP packets.

    We can see an ARP query and response in the first two lines. Because the target is on the same Ethernet, Nmap did an ARP query.
    The second and third lines show a TCP SYN ping and a response.
    The fifth line starts the port scan by sending a TCP SYN message to port 80. The IP header is 20 bytes in this case, whereas the TCP header is 24 bytes.
    The TCP header must be at least 20 bytes in size.

When fragmentation is requested with -f, the TCP header’s 24 bytes are divided into multiples of 8 bytes, with the final fragment containing 8 bytes or less of the TCP header.

We obtained three IP fragments because 24 is divisible by eight; each comprises 20 bytes of IP header and 8 bytes of TCP header. The three fragments can be seen between the fifth and seventh lines.

Note that if you added -ff (or -f -f), the fragmentation of the data will be multiples of 16. In other words, the 24 bytes of the TCP header, in this case, would be divided over two IP fragments, the first containing 16 bytes and the second containing 8 bytes of the TCP header.

On the other hand, if you prefer to increase the size of your packets to make them look innocuous, you can use the option --data-length NUM, where num specifies the number of bytes you want to append to your packets.

[Question 6.1] If the TCP segment has a size of 64, and -ff option is being used, how many IP fragments will you get?

    64 / 16 = 4

Answer: 4

## [Task-7] Idle/Zombie Scan

Spoofing the source IP address is a wonderful way to scan stealthily. Spoofing, on the other hand, will only function in specific network configurations. It necessitates that you be in a position to observe traffic.

Given these constraints, spoofing your IP address may be of little utility; nevertheless, we can improve it with the “Idle/Zombie Scan.”

Idle/Zombie Scan — It requires an idle system that is connected to the network and with which you can communicate.

In fact, Nmap will make each probe appear to come from the idle (zombie) host, then look for indicators that the idle (zombie) host received any response to the spoofed probe.

This is performed by inspecting the IP header’s IP identification (IP ID) value.

Option to use: -sI
Example: nmap -sI <zombie_IP> <target>

To determine whether a port is open, the idle (zombie) scan requires the following three steps:

    Trigger the idle host’s response so that you can record the idle host’s current IP ID.
    Send an SYN packet to the target’s TCP port. The packet should be spoofed so that it appears to be coming from the idle host’s (zombie’s) IP address.
    Restart the idle machine so that you can compare the new IP ID with the one you obtained before.

Let us illustrate with numbers. The attacker system is seen in the diagram below probing an idle machine, a multi-function printer. It responds with a RST packet containing its newly incremented IP ID after receiving a SYN/ACK.

In the next stage, the attacker will send an SYN packet to the TCP port of the target machine that they want to examine. This packet, however, will utilize the idle host (zombie) IP address as the source.

There would be three possibilities:

1) The TCP port is closed in the first case, as illustrated in the picture below, and the target machine answers to the idle host with a RST packet. Because the idle host does not react, its IP ID is not increased.

2) The TCP port is open in the second scenario, as shown below, thus the target machine answers with a SYN/ACK to the idle host (zombie). The idle host reacts to the unexpected transmission with a RST packet, which increases its IP ID.

3) Due to firewall rules, the target machine does not respond at all in the third case. This lack of response has the same effect as a closed port in that the idle host's IP ID will not be increased.

The attacker then sends another SYN/ACK to the idle host as the final step. The idle host answers with an RST packet, which increases the IP ID by one. The attacker must compare the IP ID of the first RST packet received with the IP ID of the third RST packet received. If the difference is one, the target machine’s port has been closed or filtered. If the difference is 2, it indicates that the port on the target was open.

    It is worth reiterating that this scan is termed an idle scan since selecting an idle host is critical to the scan’s accuracy. If the “idle host” is in use, all of the returned IP IDs are worthless.

[Question 7.1] You discovered a rarely-used network printer with the IP address 10.10.5.5, and you decide to use it as a zombie in your idle scan. What argument should you add to your Nmap command?

Answer: -sI 10.10.5.5


## [Task-8] Getting More Details

You might consider adding --reason if you want Nmap to provide more details regarding its reasoning and conclusions.

Consider the two scans below to the system; however, the latter adds --reason.

Without --reason

With --reason

By specifying “--reason,” we get a clear reason “why” nmap concluded that the system is up or a certain port is open.

As in Example (2), we can see that this system is believed to be online because Nmap “received arp-response.”

On the other hand, we know that the SSH port is open because Nmap received a “syn-ack” packet in response.

Consider using -v for verbose output or -vv for even more verbosity for more thorough output.

If -vv does not satisfy your curiosity, try -d for debugging information or -dd for even more. You can be certain that using -d will result in output that goes beyond a single screen.

[Question 8.1] Launch the AttackBox if you haven’t done so already. After you make sure that you have terminated the VM from Task 4, start the VM for this task. Wait for it to load completely, then open the terminal on the AttackBox and use Nmap with nmap -sS -F --reason 10.10.53.242 to scan the VM. What is the reason provided for the stated port(s) being open?

Answer: syn-ack


## [Task-9] Summary

| Port Scan Type | Example Command |
|----------------|-----------------|
TCP Null Scan | sudo nmap -SN 10.10.53.242
TCP FIN Scan | sudo nmap -sF 10.10.53.242
TCP Xmas Scan | sudo nmap -sX 10.10.53.242
TCP Maimon Scan | sudo nmap -sM 10.10.53.242
TCP ACK Scan | sudo nmap -sA 10.10.53.242
TCP Window Scan | sudo nmap -sW 10.10.53.242
Custom TCP Scan | sudo nmap --scanflags URGACKPSHRSTSYNFIN 10.10.53.242
Spoofed Source IP | sudo nmap -S SPOOFED_IP 10.10.53.242
Spoofed MAC Address | --spoof-mac SPOOFED_MAC
Decoy Scan | nmap -D DECOY_IP, ME 10.10.53.242
Idle (Zombie) Scan | sudo nmap -SI ZOMBIE_IP 10.10.53.242
Fragment IP data into 8 bytes | -f 
Fragment IP data into 16 bytes | -ff

These scan types rely on unexpectedly setting TCP flags to prompt ports for a response.

    The Null, FIN, and Xmas scan provoke a response from closed ports.
    The Maimon, ACK, and Window scans provoke a response from both open and closed ports.

| Option | Purpose |
|--------|---------|
--reason | explains how Nmap made its conclusion
-V | verbose
-VV | very verbose
-d | debugging
-dd | more details for debugging

[Question 9.1] Ensure you have taken note of all the Nmap options explained in this room. Please join the Nmap Post Port Scans room, the last room in this Nmap series.

Answer: No answer is needed.

CONCLUSION

There is no doubt that it is another room packed with an abundance of scanning characteristics that brings another viewpoint on what type of scanning we would like to undertake, particularly for “port” scanning.

Because we would want to remain stealthy, but we also need accurate data and are looking for solutions to circumvent firewalls and intrusion detection systems (if possible). Nonetheless, there is so much to learn from this room that I would redo it all over again to fully grasp the concept and what goes into each scan.

Cheers! ◡̈


# Nmap Post Port Scans

## [Task-1] Introduction
In the last room, as shown in the figure below, we focus on how Nmap can be used to:

    Detect versions of the running services (on all open ports)
    Detect the OS based on any signs revealed by the target
    Run Nmap’s traceroute
    Run select Nmap scripts
    Save the scan results in various formats

This room will focus on these steps and how to execute them after the port scan.

[Question 1.1] Ensure you have a solid understanding of how the Nmap scan progresses and the steps and stages it follows. Launch the AttackBox by using the Start AttackBox button, as you will need it to answer the questions in later tasks.

Answer: No answer is needed.

## [Task-2] Service Detection
Without a doubt, this is one of my favourite flags when it comes to port scanning because it helps to obtain and identify the “service” and “version” of the open ports, allowing us to see if any potential vulnerabilities, such as “version not updated,” exist.

Option to use: -sV
Example: nmap -sV <target>

In addition, we can adjust the intensity from “0 to 9”:

    Level ranges between 0, the lightest, and 9, the most complete. -sV --version-light has an intensity of 2, while -sV --version-all has an intensity of 9.

This is critical to understand because -sV forces Nmap to proceed with the TCP 3-way handshake and establish the connection so that we can obtain the version and service, and thus “stealth scan” (-sS) is not possible to use because “-sS” required a 2-way handshake and “-sV” required a 3-way handshake, and hence they will conflict.

The following console output illustrates a simple Nmap stealth SYN scan with the -sV parameter. When the -sV option is used, a new column in the output displays the version of each discovered service.

    For example, if TCP port 22 is open, we get 22/tcp open ssh OpenSSH 6.7p1 Debian 5+deb8u8 instead of 22/tcp open ssh (protocol 2.0).
    Because TCP port 22 is open, the SSH protocol is guessed as the service; Nmap did not need to connect to port 22 to check. -sV, on the other hand, requires connecting to this open port in order to obtain the service banner and any version information it might obtain, such as nginx 1.6.2. As a result, unlike the service column, the version column is not an educated guess.

It should be noted that many Nmap options require root permissions. Unless you are running Nmap as root, you must use sudo as shown above.

[Question 2.1] Start the target machine for this task and launch the AttackBox. Run nmap -sV --version-light <target>via the AttackBox. What is the detected version for port 143?

Answer: Dovecot imapd

[Question 2.2] Which service did not have a version detected with --version-light?

Answer: rpcbind

## [Task-3] OS Detection and Traceroute

OS Detection — It’s rather straightforward, which means it can recognize the Operating System (OS) based on its behaviour and any telltale signals in its response.

Option to use: -O Example: nmap -sS -O <target>It should be noted that it is CASE sensitive.

Even while this option has the potential to detect the target’s “Operating System,” it may not be 100% accurate because various factors can influence the accuracy of the result.

To make a reliable guess, Nmap must first locate at least one open and one closed port on the target. Furthermore, as virtualization and similar technologies become more popular, the guest OS fingerprints may become corrupted. As a result, take the OS version with a grain of salt (skeptical attitude).

Traceroute — Simply add the traceroute option to Nmap to discover the routers between us and the target. However, it differs slightly from “traceroute / tracert” in “terminal” in that normal “traceroute” begins with a packet with a low TTL (Time to Live) and increases it until it reaches the target, but Nmap’s Traceroute begins with a packet with a high TTL and decreases it.

Option to use: --traceroute
Example: nmap -sS --traceroute <target>

It is important to remember:

Many routers are configured not to transmit ICMP Time-to-Live messages when their Time-to-Live has expired, preventing us from knowing their IP addresses.

[Question 3.1] Run nmap with -O option against <target>. What OS did Nmap detect?

Answer: Linux


## [Task-4] Nmap Scripting Engine (NSE)

NSE (Nmap Scripting Engine) — It basically has a directory with close to 600 scripts in it, and having this script means that we don’t need to write the script ourselves because it has been provided.

The goal is for users to be able to build (and distribute) simple scripts to automate a wide range of networking activities. These scripts are then executed in parallel with the speed and efficiency that Nmap is known for.

Script - a chunk of code that does not require compilation. In other words, information is not translated to machine language and stays in its original human-readable form. Many programs provide additional capability through scripts; also, scripts allow for the creation of bespoke functionality that was not previously available through built-in commands.

The script can be found at the following location:

/usr/share/nmap/scripts

An example of the script may be found at

You can utilize any or all of the installed scripts; additionally, you can install other users’ scripts and use them for your scans.

You can choose to run the scripts in the default category using --script=default or simply adding -sC. In addition to default, categories include: auth, broadcast, brute, default, discovery, dos, exploit, external, fuzzer, intrusive, malware, safe, version, and vuln.

Some scripts are classified in more than one category. Furthermore, some programs do brute-force attacks on services, while others conduct DoS attacks and exploit systems. As a result, it is critical to exercise caution when picking scripts to run if you do not want to crash or exploit services.

We use Nmap to perform an SYN scan on <target> and then run the default scripts in the terminal given below.

The command is sudo nmap -sS -sC <target>, where -sC ensures that Nmap executes the default scripts after the SYN scan. 

Below are some fresh details. Take a look at the SSH service on port 22; Nmap recovered all four public keys associated with the operating server. Consider another example: the HTTP service on port 80; Nmap obtained the default page title. We can see that the page has been left as is.

You can also specify the script by name using --script "SCRIPT-NAME" or a pattern such as --script "ftp*", which would include ftp-brute.

If you are unsure what a script does, you can open the script file with a text reader, such as less, or a text editor.

In the case of ftp-brute, it states: “Performs brute force password auditing against FTP servers.”

You have to be careful as some scripts are pretty intrusive. Moreover, some scripts might be for a specific server and, if chosen at random, will waste your time with no benefit. As usual, make sure that you are authorized to launch such tests on the target server.

Let’s consider a benign script, http-date, which we guess would retrieve the http server date and time, and this is indeed confirmed in its description: “Gets the date from HTTP-like services.

Also, it prints how much the date differs from local time…” On the AttackBox, we execute sudo nmap -sS -n --script "http-date" <target> as shown in the console below.

Finally, you can extend Nmap’s capability beyond the original Nmap scripts by writing your own scripts or downloading Nmap scripts from the Internet.

Downloading and running a Nmap script from the Internet carries some risk. As a result, it’s best not to run a script from an author you don’t know.

[Question 4.1] Knowing that Nmap scripts are saved in /usr/share/nmap/scripts on the AttackBox. What does the script http-robots.txt check for?

Answer: disallowed entries

[Question 4.2] Can you figure out the name for the script that checks for the remote code execution vulnerability MS15–034 (CVE2015–2015–1635)?
https://nmap.org/nsedoc/scripts/http-vuln-cve2015-1635.html

Answer: http-vuln-cve2015–1635

[Question 4.3] Launch the AttackBox if you haven’t already. After you ensure you have terminated the VM from Task 2, start the target machine for this task. On the AttackBox, run Nmap with the default scripts -sC against <target>. You will notice that there is a service listening on port 53. What is its full version value?

Answer: 9.9.5–9+deb8u19-Debian

[Question 4.4] Based on its description, the script ssh2-enum-algos “reports the number of algorithms (for encryption, compression, etc.) that the target SSH2 server offers.” What is the name of the key exchange algorithms (kex_algorithms) that relies upon “sha1” and is supported by 10.10.29.130?

Answer: diffie-hellman-group14-sha1


## [Task-5] Saving The Output

It is only reasonable to save the results of a Nmap scan in a file.

    It is also critical to choose and follow a proper naming convention for your filenames.

The amount of files might quickly rise, making it difficult to find a previous scan result. The three primary formats are as follows:

1. Normal
2. Grepable (grep able)
3. XML

There is one more that we do not recommend:

    Script Kiddie

Normal — The format is identical to what you see on the display when you scan a target.

Option to use: -oN <file_name>
The "N" stands for "Normal"

Grepable — Generally, it makes filtering the scan output for specific keywords or terms more efficient, and the scan output differs from standard format because Nmap wants each line to be useful and complete when the user uses grep.

    As a result, in grepable output, the lines are much longer and more difficult to read than in standard output.
    Grep = Global Regular Expression Printer

Option to use: -oG <file_name>

An example use of grep is grep KEYWORD TEXT_FILE; this command will display all the lines containing the provided keyword.

Let’s compare the output of using grep on normal output and grepable output.

You will notice that the former does not provide the IP address of the host. Instead, it returned 80/tcp open http nginx 1.6.2, making it very inconvenient if you are sifting through the scan results of multiple systems.

However, the latter provides enough information, such as the host’s IP address, in each line to make it complete.

XML — It appears that processing the output in other programs would be the most convenient option.

Option to use: -oX <file_name>

Conveniently, you may save the scan output in all three formats by combining -oN, -oG, and -oX for normal, grepable, and XML with -oA <FILENAME>.

Script Kiddie — If you wish to search the output for any noteworthy keywords or save the results for future reference, this format is useless.

Option to use: -oS <file_name>

Not for those who are not technologically skilled.

[Question 5.1] Check the attached Nmap logs. How many systems are listening on the HTTPS port?

Answer: 3

[Question 5.2] What is the IP address of the system listening on port 8089?

Answer: 172.17.20.147

## [Task-6] Summary

| Option | Meaning |
|-----------|-------|
-SV | determine service/version info on open ports
-SV --version-light | try the most likely probes (2)
-SV-version-all | try all available probes (9)
-O | detect OS
--traceroute | run traceroute to target
--script-SCRIPTS | Nmap scripts to run
-SC or script=default | run default scripts
-A | equivalent to -SV-0 SC --traceroute
-oN | save output in normal format
-oG | save output in grepable format
-oX | save output in XML format
-oA | save output in normal, XML and Grepable formats

[Question 6.1] This room concludes the Nmap series of 4 rooms. Ensure you have taken note of all the Nmap options explained in this room and previous ones.

Answer: No answer is needed.

CONCLUSION

All of the information presented in this room is incredibly useful because it will aid immensely in the area of enumeration, and we needed as much information as possible before moving on to the “action” phase.

Such as “service detection,” which helps us determine whether the target is still running an older version and may be leveraged by discovering the vulnerability documentation on the internet.

That being said, I particularly enjoy the “NSE” section because it would save us a lot of time and effort by leveraging the existing script to complete the necessary work on our behalf and then save the file for future reference.

It’s a fun room with a big impact!

Cheers! ◡̈